# Benefits of varying navigation strategies in teams of robots 
 
Inspired by recent human studies, this paper investigates the benefits of employing varying navigation strategies in robot teams. We explore how mixed navigation strategies impact task completion time, environment exploration, and overall system effectiveness in multi-robot systems. Experiments were conducted in a simulated rectangular environment using Clearpath PR2 robots and evaluated different navigation strategies observed in humans: 1) Route (RT) knowledge where agents follow a predefined path, 2) Survey (SW) knowledge where agents take the shortest path while avoiding obstacles, 3) Mixed strategies with varying proportions, such as 40% RT and 60% SW (0.4RT 0.6SW) and 60% RT and 40% SW (0.6RT 0.4SW), and 4) An additional strategy where agents switch from RT to SW 10% of the time (0.9RT 0.1SW). While SW strategy is the most time-efficient, RT strategy covers more of the environment. Mixed strategies offer a balanced trade-off. These findings highlight the advantages of variability in navigation strategies, suggesting benefits in both biological and robotic populations. Additionally, we
have observed that human participants in a similar study would start on a route, and then 10% of the time switch to survey. Therefore, we investigate a 90% Route 10% Survey (0.9RT 0.1SW) strategy for individual team members. While a pure Survey strategy is the most efficient regarding time taken and a pure Route strategy covers more of the environment, a mixture of strategies appears to be a beneficial tradeoff between time taken to complete a mission and area coverage. These results highlight the advantages of population variability, suggesting potential benefits in both biological and robotic populations.
Keywords: Navigation, Teams, Route, Survey, multi-robot systems
